A scene graph is a general data structure commonly used in modern computer games, which arranges the logical and spatial representation of a graphical scene consisting of collection of nodes in a graph or tree structure.The project involved implementing scene graph (in C++ adhering to MVC architecture) for an animated scene consisting of five objects and four light sources.


1.Make the "AnimationUsingSceneGraph" folder as the present working directory in the terminal.
2.Run "make all" command.
3.Run the command "./mesh.out".

Animation using SceneGraphs:
The floor is the root of the scene, with cube, the porshce(not always) and the f16 as direct children of the floor. The cube has a car attached to it. The cube rotates about its axis and moves along the of the corners of the rooms with car attached on top.The porsche moves along the half diagonal of the floor and porsche attaches to the top of the cube the moment the cube reaches close to it and detaches either when user makes a detach request('Z' key) or when it comes back to its previous attached location. The f16 makes diagonal trip across the room. The scene can be viewed from three positons : point far away from the scene, or from the f16 or from the car on top of the cube. A headlight (spotlight) is attached to the camera and also a spotlight keeps following the cube as it moves. The scene turns pitch black if all the lights are turned off.

Instructions to use:
i) Use "LEFT ARROW","RIGHT ARROW","UP ARROW" and "DOWN ARROW" keys to TRANSLATE the camera left,right,up and down respectively.	

ii) Use "+/-" keys to zoom in/out the scene .

iii) While viewing the model, use the "LEFT MOUSE BUTTON" to move the camera along the scene.
   The eye location will be altered by an amount defined by the arc between the two clicked points.  

iv) Use 'A','S','D' and 'F' keys to turn OFF and ON the 4 light sources.

v) Click 'C' to toggle between the 3 camera positions.

vi) Use 'Q' and 'W' keys to controll the speed of the cube. Similarly 'E' and 'R' keys to controll the speed of the f16.

vii) Use 'Z' key to detach the porsche from the cube( ignored if porsche is not attached to cube).
 
 
